well US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin has arrived in Saudi Arabia for
talks on Israel's war on Gaza he will be
discussing efforts to secure a ceasefire
and more Aid deliveries to the strip
this is his sixth tour of the region
since October he's expected to head to
Egypt and Israel next for more talks
let's bring in Al jaaz senior political
analyst Maran bashara let's start with
Lincoln's visit his sixth visit to the
region since October does he genuin
believe that he can make any difference
given what he's achieved so so far which
is nothing you know you wonder right one
wonders
because on the one hand one can see how
uh the United States the Biden
Administration is kind of playing it
both ways trying to have it its cake and
eat it too it's both trying to maintain
some distance from the Netanyahu
government while providing unconditional
support to the Israeli government so so
you can see that they are sort of
playing it both ways and it's important
to continue to play The Diplomatic card
because that helps deflect from the real
tragedy that's unraveling in Gaza so
perhaps that is the task the task is not
to save the people in Gaza the task is
to save the United States
from
complicity being known as the verdict
being that the United States is
complicit in genocide in Gaza you said
deflect but deflect for who because it's
really interesting I get a sense that
every time the US tells the Israelis uh
off anything the worse the situation
gets in Gaza this is the thing right so
we have here in the studio and in inside
in the room in the office you know a
number of um screens if you watch
International media especially Western
media they're talking about how the
Biden Administration is trying to boost
Aid to the to the poor
Palestinians you then you would watch
them you Cameron and BBC saying how
wonderful you know the UK role is in
trying to establish a two-state solution
somewhere down the road while doctors
are being killed in Gaza while children
are being killed in Gaza so you have
these Western officials notably the
Americans continue to talk about stuff
right diplomacy humanitarian Aid Israel
is doing its best it's not doing its
best the Israeli government not the
Israel government while children are
dying while people are dying of
starvation while more women more doctors
more nurses more teachers more academics
continue to die in Gaza so while the
Western media is busy talking about
diplomatic this and that and this ini
initiative and that initiative and this
captive that captive we've been busy for
five months talking about 100 plus
captives uh in the hands of Hamas while
every day some hundred people are killed
by Israel if not more right so it's
definitely helps this kind of diplomatic
circus helps the United States and
Israel deflect from the real tragedies
on the ground even you and I here we are
talking about
Blink so but we are smart enough I hope
everyone else could could be smart
enough to always mention underline right
emphasize the fact that while these
people are trying to waste our
time in fact people are dying famine is
not something at the brink of happening
it is Happ it is it has happened it's a
state of famine as Joseph Borel himself
the EU foreign policy Chief has
underlined just the day before yesterday
so in fact the tragedy continues to
unravel in plain sight it is on the TV
screens but Western
diplomats basically on behalf of Israel
right continuously try to defend the
Israeli repeat the Israeli sound bites
on Western TV screen so that the West
continues to provide support to Israel
while maintaining some kind of a
distance from Israel I also wanted to
touch on what's going on at alifa
hospital so little information coming
out from there it is I believe day four
of an Israeli raid on the
hospital Maran I I wonder if we should
remind our audience you know that this
is the first hospital that was raided
back in October
uh why are the Israelis back here again
and and and
2014 and 2019 there's a whole memory
right so this was started and if you
it's good probably to to remind people
around the world our viewers around the
world about how this was supposed to be
uh on top of multi-layer multi level
Hamas headquarters right where all the
operation the world terror right was
really being being uh being designed and
engineered from there then that there's
nothing absolutely nothing okay so why
what's happening today is worse than
what happened back then and what
happened back then was already tragic
awful criminal a war crime and so on so
forth because Israel was still working
on some assumption that somewhere you
know some perhaps convinced of that they
could probably find something they
didn't find anything five months later
they continue to attack and the way
they're attacking the doctors and the
nurses is a thing I would like to you
know for us to stop and and think about
I think there's a special place in hell
for people who abduct and kill doctors
and torture doctors because these people
amongst all of us they are the ones who
are saving lives to kill people who are
saving lives you definitely have a
special place in in hell so there's a
there's an Israeli
government that is deliberately
attacking hospitals attacking doctors
who are trying to save lives now under
what
pretense I think they basically run out
of pretenses right so now they say
anything that's associated or smells
like someone is perhaps the relative of
someone that worked for Hamas or worked
in the health Ministry or anything of
that nature which is by every single
definition a war crime Israel continues
to commit war crimes in daylight right
in plain sight on TV screens and what Dr
mads told us in his own private
conversation with people with doctors in
the hospital which is I believe 100% to
be trustworthy underlines the fact
that Israel can continue to do that
because if you are if you were in
Israel's position the world continues to
talk and does nothing it continues to
warn Israel don't do that don't do that
and Israel does it and nothing happens
then why shouldn't Israel continue to do
what it's doing and run run away with it
get away with it with total impunity
because the world continues to warn and
does absolutely nothing it's a total
betrayal of human rights of of universal
values and of every value of decency
that we know
of how just a senior political analyst
Maran Bashar thank
you